# Abhishek Katyare

## __Introduction__
I am an Engineer from Nashik, India who loves to develop digital systems and write software to make world more
digital. I am a coder by profession and entrepreneur by heart. I have a passion for creating and enhancing anything
related to the technology. When it comes to building something new, my ultimate goal is to make the world a better
place. I’m a digital professional on the bleeding edge technology. Strong engineering professional with a Bachelor of
Engineering (B.E.) focused in Computer Science and Engineering from Savitribai Phule Pune University.

I’m self-motivated, highly adaptable, intellectual, technology enthusiast, problem solver, persistent. Self-taught
many programming languages and new technologies. I’m enthusiastic to learn new technologies and I like trial and
error method to solve any problem. I like to experiment and research in Internet of Things(IoT), AI, Machine Learning,
Deep Learning, BigData, Distributed Computing & Parallel Programming.

I’m ”jugaadu” kind of person. So if you gave me challenge and time duration to find out solution to it. And if I don’t
know anything about it, then I just want one machine and full access of internet. I’ll do research, learn and develop the
solution for that challenge within the given time frame.

I’m also interested in entrepreneurship, critical reading, listening to music, traveling, trekking, hiking, street and
landscape photography.

----------

## __Education__
+ #### Savitribai Phule Pune University | August 2014 - July 2017 | Nashik, India
	+ **BE IN COMPUTER ENGINEERING**	
	+ **First Class** with Aggregate of 3 Years is **62.91%**
+ #### K. K. Wagh Polytechnic | July 2009 - June 2012 | Nashik, India
	+ **DIPLOMA IN COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY**	
	+ **First Class** with **72.97%**
+ #### Pethe Vidyalaya | June 2009 | Nashik, India
	+ **SSC EXAM (10<sup>th</sup>)**
	+ **First Class** with **67.23%**

----------

## __Experience__ 
+ #### Freelancer.com | **Software Engineer** | June 2019 – Present | Nashik, India
	+ Full-Stack Web Development
	+ Native as well as cross platform application development

+ #### COGNIZANT | **Programmer Analyst** | June 2018 – May 2019 | Kolkata, India
	+ Part of the BigData Product Development team, responsible for creating one Data Validation tool from scratch to validate large amount of data and generate result sheet in Microsoft Excel.
	+ Data Validation is perform between two files extracted from: 
		+ DB2
		+ Hadoop with the help of Hive
		+ Oracle Database
	+ Design the software programs for the new system and then translate the designs into various programming languages for the computer to follow.
	+ Responsible for testing software to ensure there are no problems and debugging programs whenever problems arise.
	+ **Technologies Used: Core and Advance Java, JavaFX, Python, SQL, NoSQL**

+ #### Cumulus Techsoft | **Software Developer** | May 2017 – June 2018 | Nashik, India
	+ Part of Core Development Team, main focused on designing, developing and deploying web application.
	+ Developed and maintained full stack java web application for a client.
	+ Also done unit and integration testing forthat web application.
	+ **Technologies Used: HTML5 and CSS3, JavaScript, Java, Spring, Hibernate**

+ #### LoGMIEER | **Technical Engineer** | June 2015 – July 2016 | Nashik, India
	+ Created and Implemented Hadoop Cluster with the help of HDFS and 19 machines for Distributed and Parallel Computing. On created Hadoop Cluster, implementing MapReduse Programs and experimenting with it.
	+ Configuring and Programming of BeagleBone Black, Arduino Uno & Arduino Mega 2560 with Ethernet Shield & ESP8266 and experimenting with it.
	+ **Technologies Used: Hadoop, HDFS, Java, BeagleBone Black, C, C++**
	+ Configuring network devices like Routers, Switches etc. & expanding existing network with the help of Static as well as DHCP IP. Troubleshooting network problems, network devices & computer hardware problems.
	+ Upgrading & Repairing PC’s, Crimping of CAT5/CAT6 Twisted Pair Cables.
	+ Installation of different distributions of Linux Operating Systems like Redhat, Ubuntu, Fedora, OpenSUSE etc. & Microsoft Windows 7, 8, 8.1, 10.
	+ Installation and working with Remote Access Tools like NoMachine, TeamViewer, VNC.
	+ Creating different types of servers like HTTP, FTP, SMTP, etc.

----------

## __Academic Projects__
+ #### BE Final Year Project | **Project Leader + Programmer** | January 2017 – April 2017 | Nashik, India	
	+ **SMART ENERGY METERING & BILLING SYSTEM USING ARDUINO & IOT**
		+ The proposed energy metering system can implement with Open Source Hardware like Arduino and Ethernet Shield to transmit the data, pulses generated by energy meter, security services, calculated bill over the Internet.
		+ The main task of Arduino is to catch the pulse of the Meter and then fire a query in the database to store the pulse as well as calculate kWh forwarded from a single smart meter, in order to make this information available on Internet.
		+ **Weblink:** [GitHub://abhishekkatyare/SmartMeteringSystem](https://github.com/abhishekkatyare/SmartMeteringSystem)
		+ **Technologies Used: C for Arduino, PHP and MySQL, HTML5 and CSS3**

+ #### Diploma Final Year Project | **Project Leader + Programmer** | January 2012 – April 2012 | Nashik, India
	+ **TURBO C/C++ MASTER (AVSS EDITOR)**
		+ AVSS Editor is a text editor and source code editor with compilation feature for use with Microsoft Windows.
		+ It supports tabbed editing, which allows working with multiple open files in a single window.
		+ **Technologies Used: C#.NET, VB.NET, Batch Processing**

+ #### Diploma Second Year Project | **Programmer** | March 2011 – April 2011 | Nashik, India 
	+ **PIANO**
		+ It is implemented using Object Oriented Programming Concepts and C++ with the help of ASCII values.
		+ **Technologies Used: C++**

----------

## __Skills__
+ **PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES**
	+ **Back-end:** Python • Java 
	+ **Front-end:** HTML5 and CSS3 • JavaScript • JavaFX 
	+ **Familiar with:** C • C++ • C# • LaTeX   
  
+ **DATABASE SYSTEMS**
	+ MySQL • PostgreSQL • MongoDB 

+ **FRAMEWORKS & API**
	+ Django • Django REST Framework • Flask • Flask RESTful • Spring • Spring Boot • Hibernate • React.js • Express.js • jQuery • REST API • GraphQL

+ **PaaS & SERVER RUNTIME** 
	+ Heroku • PythonAnywhere • Apache HTTP Server • Nginx • Apache Tomcat • Node.js 
<!-- hi -->
+ **BUILD AUTOMATION TOOLS**
	+ Apache Maven 

+ **VERSION CONTROL SYSTEMS, RELEASE & DEPLOYMENT**
	+ git & GitHub • CI/CD • Maven • Jenkins
  
+ **PROTOCOLS**
	+ FTP • HTTP • SMTP • MOSH • SSH • Telnet • DHCP • DNS  
  
+ **OPERATING SYSTEM**
	+ **Linux:** Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS • Fedora 31 • CentOS 8.1 • RedHat Enterprise Linux 7
	+ **Microsoft:** Windows XP • Vista • 7 • 8 • 8.1 • 10 

+ **EMBEDDED SYSTEMS**
	+ Arduino • BeagleBone • Raspberry Pi 
  
+ **REMOTE ACCESS TOOLS**
	+ NoMachine • TeamViewer • VNC

----------

## __Awards & Certifications__
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>2019</td>
    <td>Only one selected</td>
    <td>(out of 70 candidates) for DVMap at Cognizant</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2015</td>
    <td>College Topper</td>
    <td>(out of 420 Students) KVNNIEER</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2015</td>
    <td>1<sup>st</sup> Prize</td>
    <td>(out of 260 Students) Blind 'C' Competition at KVNNIEER</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2012</td>
    <td>3<sup>rd</sup> Prize</td>
    <td>(out of 600 Students) SVIT Delve State Level Competition</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2011</td>
    <td>1<sup>st</sup> Prize</td>
    <td>(out of 780 Students) Blind 'C' Competition at KKWIEER</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2011</td>
    <td>'A' Grade</td>
    <td>Microsoft VB.NET using Microsoft Visual Studio 2008</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2009</td>
    <td>'A' Grade</td>
    <td>Computer Networking and Laptop Servicing at EDIIndia</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2008</td>
    <td>Bronze Medalist</td>
    <td>International Informatics Olympiad (iio–2008)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2007</td>
    <td>Gold Medalist</td>
    <td>International Informatics Olympiad (iio–2007)</td>
  </tr>
</table>

----------

## __Interests & Hobbies__
Artificial Intelligence • Machine Learning • Deep Learning • Natural-language processing • Data Science • BigDATA • Cloud Computing • 
Internet of Things (IoT) • Programming • Critical Reading • Listening to Music • Traveling • Trekking & Hiking • Street & Landscape Photography

----------

## __Links__
[abhishekkatyare.xyz](https://www.abhishekkatyare.xyz/) • 
[About.Me](https://about.me/abhishekkatyare) • 
[LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/abhishekkatyare) • 
[GitHub](https://github.com/abhishekkatyare) • 
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/AbhishekKatyare) • 
[Medium](https://medium.com/@abhishekkatyare) • 
[DEV](https://dev.to/abhishekkatyare) 
